Add ERC: Multiplayer Game Communication (#130)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7566.md

---
eip: 7566

> title: Multiplayer Onchain Game

Reviewer: Your title sounds more like you are standardizing one particular game. You should try to make it more general.

Author: Hey @SamWilsn , I want to discuss more, this name is the same as Multi Token Standard (erc1155). It does not specifically refer to the type of game Multiplayer Online Game. Instead, it refers to Multi Player Standard. Prevent confusion between Online and Onchain. Do you think Multiplayer Game Standard is ok?

Reviewer: Yes, I see; "Multiplayer Game Standard" sounds better than just "Multiplayer Game". How about something like "Multiplayer Game Rooms" or "Multiplayer Game Communication"?

Author: Hey @SamWilsn , thank you so much for checking again, "Multiplayer Game Communication" is so cool, I used it, btw, I already created a game with this proposal, https://chainchess.xyz/

> description: A solution that enables multiple players to play onchain game.

Reviewer: Your description doesn't give any new information that wasn't already in the title. You should also try to avoid words that don't add substance, like "solution".

author: Rickey (@HelloRickey)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-proposal-multiplayer-onchain-game/16796
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-11-28
---

## Abstract

> This proposal proposes a multiplayer onchain game (MOG) standard interface based on smart contracts, using room to match and group players, and using message to process actions between players. This allows one smart contract to handle multiple players playing games on the chain, preventing centralized servers from affecting the fairness of the game.

Reviewer: Rewording a bit to be less repetitive:

```suggestion
This proposal introduces a multiplayer onchain game (MOG) interface, using room to match and group players, and using message to process actions between players. This allows one smart contract to handle multiple players playing games on the chain, preventing centralized servers from affecting the fairness of the game.
```

> This proposal proposes a multiplayer onchain game (MOG) standard interface based on smart contracts, using room to match and group players, and using message to process actions between players. This allows one smart contract to handle multiple players playing games on the chain, preventing centralized servers from affecting the fairness of the game.

Reviewer: > using room
> using message

You should explain a bit more about what "room" and "message" are here. Are they contracts, abstract concepts, or something else? If they are contracts or interfaces, you could do something like `Room` or `Message` to indicate that they are snippets of code.

## Motivation   

Common multiplayer games are generally played on centralized servers. Players have no way of knowing whether there are forged data and cheating on the server. The owner of the game server can match players at will, modify scores and levels, and even close and pause the game. If the player's actions all occur on the chain, every message from the chain is proof of the player's instructions and actions, which further ensures the fairness of the game. The Multiplayer Onchain Game framework scales vertically by adding rooms to handle and accommodate multiple players. Write on-chain game logic with custom messages for horizontal expansion, allowing game developers to build multiplayer and fully on-chain games with smart contracts.

> 

Reviewer: The biggest outstanding objection I have is that I don't see which parties would need to cooperate on this standard. If I made a game ReallyAwesomeGame, I'd be free to use whatever architecture I want. No one else needs to interact with it besides ReallyAwesomeGame's frontend and the on-chain contracts.

I wouldn't expect Metamask to support ReallyAwesomeGame directly. I wouldn't really expect Etherscan to display the details of ReallyAwesomeGame either.

EIPs really shine when different parties have to interoperate without coordination, like ERC-20 tokens and wallets, or NFTs and marketplaces. I just don't see who would have to work together for this standard.

---

That's not to say you can't get this merged. It just means you need to expand your motivation with information about the different parties that need to work together.

Author: Hey @SamWilsn , thank you very much for your different perspective, I updated some of the advantages of using this standard in motivation. Please check it out.

If you build a multiplayer game that doesn't use any standards and don't want etherscan or wallets to support it, I don't see anything wrong with that, just like some people don't like using erc20 and erc721. When standards are adopted on a large scale, many parties will consider how to integrate them into products. I would like to use some examples to explain how other parties can cooperate on this standard when we use a standard to build a game.

Block explorer
When I enter my wallet address, it will query which games I have participated in, and then query which rooms I have joined based on `getRoomIds`, and then display my game behavior records in each room based on `getMemberId` and `getMessageIds`.This game log may be more readable than the transaction log.I can know the result of every game I play, whether I win or lose.

Wallet
When I call the contract `join`, the wallet will remind me whether I want to join the room with Room ID 32, which has a total of 100 people. When I call `sendMessage`, the wallet will prompt me with the contents of Room Id 32, From xxx, To xxx, Message xxxx. The wallet can even provide the Import Rooms function. I can enter the game contract address and Room Id, and the wallet can determine whether the room exists for me through `hasMember`.This is like importing NFT into my wallet, making it easier for me to play games next time.

Guild, Galxe, and other Proof of Attendance Protocol platforms
They can use the game contract address and `hasMember` to determine whether a player has participated in their game. If so, the player can receive a POAP.

Game statistics platform like Defillama
The game activity level of each chain can be analyzed based on `getRoomCount`, `getMemberCount` and `getMessageIds`.

some other applications:
For voting applications, use `createRoom` to create a voting room and define a message type. After participants `join` the room, they vote through `sendMessage`.
For social applications, use `createRoom` to create a topic room. Users entering the room can post content related to this topic through `sendMessage`.

### How to initialize player data?

You can initialize player data in `createRoom` or `joinRoom`.

### How to check and handle player exits from the game?

You can use `block.timestamp` or `block.number` to record the latest `sendMessage` time of a member. And add a message type to `sendMessage`. Other players can use this message type to complain that a member is offline and punish the member.

### Appropriate game categories.

This is a multiplayer on-chain game rather than a multiplayer real-time game standard. The game category depends on the network your contract is deployed on. Some layer 2 networks process blocks very quickly and can make some more real-time games. Generally, the network is more suitable for strategy, trading card, turn-based, chess, sandbox, and settlement.

## Reference Implementation

See [Multiplayer Onchain Game Example](../assets/eip-7566/MultiplayerOnchainGame.sol)

## Security Considerations

> Needs discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO: Needs discussion. -->
```

If you use a comment, the linter will make sure you replace it before moving to the next status.
